In the criminal justice system.
sexually-based offenses are
considered especially heinous.
In New York City. the
dedicated detectives
who investigate
these vicious felonies
are members of an elite squad
known as the Special Victims Unit.
These are their stories.
Another push-in rape?
Looks like it. Lieutenant.
Guy follows the wife
into her apartment
around 11:00
intending to rape her.
Husband comes home.
gets pistol-whipped.
Just like the one on
Frederick Douglass.
Worse. He stayed
longer this time.
We got the call a
little after 6:00 a.m.
Suspect left them tied up. Wife
used voice-activated Siri to call 911.
Good for her. Yeah.
So she's still conscious?
They're working on her.
Doom. Campesi.
Twice in two weeks.
Long. hot summer.
They've been working on the
wife. Cynthia Harris. in there.
She give a description?
Not yet. EMTs
are just finishing...
Hi. Mrs. Harris. I'm
Lieutenant Benson.
Can you tell me anything about
the man who did this to you?
Uh. he was. uh. black. Tall.
Hold on.
My daughter. Oh my God.
Do you have my daughter?
Your daughter? CYNTHIA: Sophie.
She was at a
sleepover down the hall.
She got homesick and she came
home early. I think he took her.
Okay. A sleepover.
How old is your daughter?
She's 12.
Okay. let's get her
out of here. guys.
We're gonna find her.
Move. No videos. And
no witnesses so far.
All right. uh. he took
their 12-year-old daughter.
Probably didn't want to be seen
dragging her out
in broad daylight.
So. let's lock the
building down now.
On it.
Clear down here.
Roof's clear.
Anything? Hm-mm.
Storage room is clear.
Clear in the hallway.
Check over there. Right away.
MALE OFFICER
1: Clear here. Clear.
Hey!
Hey! I found her. Call a bus.
Sophie? Are you okay? Are
you all right? Come on. Come on.
I got you. Come on.
Come on. I got you.
Clear a path.
Hey! I need a gurney over
here. Come on. Come on.
Hey. We got you.
Sophie. We got you.
Where's my mommy. my daddy?
They're okay. They're okay.
You're gonna be fine. Sophie.
All right. I'll ride with her.
Find this guy.
Hey. sexual assault.
secondary trauma.
Busy night. I have a husband
and wife being worked on.
Yeah. those are her parents.
Oh. my God. BENSON: Sophie.
Doctor Patel is gonna take
care of you. okay. sweetie?
Get her in that bay. All right.
you're gonna be just fine.
Lieutenant Benson.
how are the vics?
Alive.
Same M.O. as last week?
Apparently. Looks like we have
a bad guy working your precinct.
I mean. we're gonna run
the DNA. but I gotta tell...
You're still short-staffed. right?
Whatever you need. just ask.
Vertical patrols. get
last week's sketch out.
Okay. How about I
address your next roll call.
Also. I'm gonna need to borrow a
couple of detectives to interview the vics
when they're ready to talk.
You got it. Thank you.
I need to see
Cynthia and Sophie.
Doctors are with
them. Mr. Harris.
Right now. just tell us
what you remember.
It's fuzzy. I was knocked out.
Take your time.
I get home from work late.
He comes out. with a
gun to Cynthia's head.
Pistol-whips me.
makes her tie me up.
Then he rapes her.
Can you describe him?
Big. black. late 20s.
What about his hair?
Anything about the
clothes he was wearing?
Uh... Bit of an afro. Some
kind of a team jersey.
Is this the man you saw?
Maybe.
That the push-in rapist?
My brother warned me about him.
Who's your brother?
He's on the job. the 12.
You haven't caught this guy yet?
I didn't see him in the hallway.
but he was right behind me.
He pushed me inside.
Did he have a gun?
Yes.
I gave him my purse.
my PIN number.
I just did whatever
he told me to.
Then I was worried about
my husband coming home.
But then I should have screamed.
I should have warned Alec.
Cynthia. he could
have killed you.
You survived. Your husband
survived. your daughter survived.
Okay. Okay.
Excuse me. we need
to start the rape kit now.
Okay.
Hey. how are the vics?
Not great.
He made the husband watch?
- Yeah.
Son of a bitch. Then he
rapes the little girl. too?
Some of our guys know
the husband's brother.
He's good police.
God help this guy when
we catch him. Yeah.
You get a DNA hit yet?
I don't think so. Detective
Rollins is leaning on the M.E.
Rollins? Oh. she's sharp.
Yeah. we worked a case together
out in Brooklyn
a few years back.
Kind of hit it off.
Did you? Yeah.
Maybe I'll just go say hello.
Detective Rollins.
Doom. How are you?
I'm good. I'm good.
Congratulations.
Who's the lucky dad?
Someone I know?
I don't think so.
All right. attention.
A lot to cover.
Captain Reece.
You've heard about
our pattern rapist.
so I won't waste any time.
SVU is here to walk you
through the relevant details.
Lieutenant Benson...
So. last night. a
push-in rape occurred
about three blocks
from the one a week ago.
Perp had a gun and he assaulted
each member of the family.
including their
12-year-old daughter.
And. yes. the victims are
related to a brother officer.
This is family.
Detective Rollins...
Look. the first vic
worked up this sketch.
Now we're still waiting for the
DNA from last night's attacks.
but one of the vics did give
us details that do match this.
Now he took the
wife's credit cards.
so we have flagged
them. we've left them open.
Canvass the neighborhood.
Lean on your CIs.
I got no problems with
stop-and-frisks tonight.
He's hit our precinct twice this
week. He has to have roots here.
Someone knows him.
Remember. he's armed. extremely
dangerous. looking at serious time.
I know it's hot.
keep your vests on.
Time. distance.
cover are your friends.
I don't care if this scumbag
makes it through the night.
I care if you do. Understood?
- Understood.
- Yes. sir.
All right. let's hit it.
Gentlemen. why don't you
slide over here real quick?
No. no. man.
Stop-and-frisk is over.
Stop-and-shut-up isn't.
You seen this guy?
Why? You gonna shoot him?
Look again.
I know 10 brothers
who look like that.
Start naming them.
Excuse me. ma'am. would
you mind looking at this photo?
Uh. why am I being
harassed? I'm just walking.
Okay. just put a name to the
face. and then we'll move on.
Am I under arrest? Otherwise. I
don't have to answer your questions.
Okay. ma'am. he
raped a 12-year-old girl.
You don't want
him on the street.
Yo. you've seen this
guy? I don't know him.
How about you look at the
sketch first. then answer.
How about you. bro?
You seen this guy?
He may have been here
about half an hour ago.
He had one of them
throwback jerseys on.
Number 23.
And you sure you
haven't seen this man?
No. I wish I could help you. but
I've never seen that man before.
Thank you. sir.
Well. that was useless.
What are we. 0 for 6?
Hold on. maybe not. Rollins
just got a hit on the bank card.
This the guy?
Yeah. I got it right here.
Okay. How long ago was this?
Maybe 15 minutes?
Hard to see his face.
You got anything else?
No. but that's him.
Took out $200.
He wanted more. but I
told him that was the max.
I thought he was gonna shoot me.
He had a gun?
I saw something
on his right side.
Yeah. Lock the
neighborhood down.
Central. form a perimeter
around 131st Street.
Let transit know. Perp was
last seen 15 minutes ago.
We're on it. Good.
Have unis lock down
any ATMs in their sector.
He maxed out here. but
he could be trying others.
Got it.
Spotted him? Yeah.
he was in the bodega
15 minutes ago.
Ten-thirteen.
Suspect headed south on Frederick
Douglass and 129 toward the projects.
That's the Clayton
Powell houses.
Central. get aviation up.
Let's move. MALE DISPATCHER:
Copy that. air too underway.
Halt! Freeze!
Police!
Stop! Police!
Crossed 127. running
west back to the projects.
There he is. right there. Right
there. Go. go! Cut him off. Cut him off!
Other side. Go. go. go!
Call it in.
Shots fired. Clayton
Powell houses.
Hey.
Is everyone all right?
We got him. We got the bastard.
He was going for his gun.
Okay. Secure the scene now.
Carisi. get his weapon. Check for vitals.
You got the gun?
Clear.
- Where's his gun?
- I don't see it.
Carisi. where's the
weapon? I got keys.
He's barely breathing.
Looks like... Where's his gun?
Bus is on its way.
He reached for a weapon. I saw.
Okay. Start looking.
He must have tossed it.
He was shooting
at us. I heard it.
Don't say a word.
Hey. I got a wallet.
Okay.
I got cash. No
credit or ATM cards.
Just driver's license that says
his name is Terrence
Reynolds. 22 years old.
Lives here. on
the fifth floor. Hey.
Y'all just gonna
leave him there?
Cops shoot another unarmed
black man. then leave him to die?
Why are you so worried about
a man who just raped a child?
Shh! Okay. take it easy.
Ambulance is on the way. ma'am.
Your guys need to
turn over their guns.
And they all need
to get to the hospital.
For a blood alcohol and
tox screen. I know the drill.
Okay. I'm gonna
need your weapons.
It was a good shoot. Captain.
He ran. he was taking cover.
Stop talking. Detective.
Say nothing to anyone.
Wait for your delegate. I'll
take your guns over here.
Get his name to Real Time.
see if they have anything on him.
Confiscate phones. Somebody
could've gotten this on video.
This crowd isn't gonna help us.
Well. convince them otherwise.
Where the hell's that
bus? He's slipping away.
Okay. the bus is on
its way. They're coming.
Listen. I'm gonna stay with him.
You go. go search the building.
Shouldn't I wait for a warrant?
Yeah. I'm gonna
call one in. okay.
In the meantime. just
get creative. okay?
He stole their money. He stole
their credit cards and their jewelry.
We need to tie him
to those rapes ASAP.
All right.
Where does Terrence
keep his stuff?
Hey. don't you need a
warrant? It'll be here any second.
Why. you got something to hide?
Was that Terrence
who got shot? Why?
He ran.
Can I look in here?
Yes or no? What's in here
that you don't want me to see?
It ain't even mine. Go
ahead and look. man.
How well do you
know your roommate?
We met. like. three months ago
on Craigslist. He's a quiet dude.
Okay. Well. he's got pills
here. he's got a few joints.
This gives me probable cause
to search this whole place.
You get that. right? No.
Are you covering for him?
That makes you an accessory
to the rape of a 12-year-old girl.
Were you in on that?
No. No. Look wherever
you want. man.
Where was he last night?
I don't know. I was working.
You can ask my boss.
Believe me. I will.
Your roommate
cut his hair recently?
No. man. He always had a fade.
Petty-ante drug possession
doesn't help me. Carisi.
No stolen credit cards?
Yes. the warrant is on its way.
Get CSU up there.
Look for blood.
the vic's DNA.
everything. Let's go.
Tucker.
What. you sleep with a
radio under your pillow?
I don't need one.
Police shoot another
young black man.
word travels. Is that them?
Yes. Everything's
being taken care of.
All right. I understand
I have 48 hours
to talk to IAB and
give their statements.
But if they take all 48. your
precinct's gonna be on fire.
I'll talk to them.
Not without me you won't.
Ms. Denzler. Detective's
Endowment moving quickly also. eh?
If you're here.
Tucker. I'm here.
Easy. guys. We're all
on the same team. right?
We were told that
our son was here.
Terrence Reynolds.
Mrs. Reynolds...
We got a call saying
that he was shot?
He was.
He's in surgery now.
What happened?
We're still investigating.
What we do know is that your son
led the police on a foot chase.
Wait. the police shot him?
Do you know anything about
your son's whereabouts last night?
No. He doesn't live
with us. You shot him?
Why would you shoot him?
Calm down. Calm down.
Is that his doctor?
That's one of them.
I'm so sorry.
No.
No. not my son.
I saw him on TV. That's the guy.
Okay. well. hold
on. take your time.
We need to make
sure. So look at them all.
No. no. it's him. His hair's a
little bit shorter. but it's him.
Um...
That one looks
a little like him.
but he's young in
that photo. Is it old?
Uh. no. it's current.
I'm...
I'm sorry. I think he was older
and tougher-looking than him.
Okay.
Thank you so much for coming in.
You get an ID?
Not really. Rollins?
Immediately. He picked
Terrence right out of the gate.
It's 50-50.
Three cops who thought he was
pulling a gun that we can't find.
Three cops we know that we've
worked with. I mean. Doom is rock-solid.
Okay. Carisi. bring in last
week's vic. show her a photo array.
Go over every video from the
shooting. Maybe he tosses the gun.
And. Rollins. where
the hell is the DNA?
It just went down to the lab.
So follow it. Test it
yourself if you have to.
Terrence Reynolds
fit the description
of the rapist we were pursuing.
Did you identify yourself?
Yes. then the suspect fled.
At what point did you find it
necessary to fire your weapon?
When the suspect
took cover in a doorway
and pulled something
out of his waistband.
At that moment.
I clearly felt that my life and the lives
of my fellow officers were in danger.
Why did you feel that way?
He fled without cause.
We gave chase. and when
we subsequently cornered him.
he reached for something that I
had reason to believe was a gun.
Did you see it?
We were told the
suspect was armed.
I felt my life. and the lives of
my fellow officers. were in danger.
So you emptied your clip?
No. I fired three times.
Your two fellow officers
emptied their clips.
Why did you stop at three?
Uh...
I didn't have as good a
visual on him as they did.
Oh. you didn't?
And yet you knew he was
armed at the time you fired?
I felt my life. and the lives of
my fellow officers. were in danger.
Are we good?
Almost. One more thing.
Your story.
besides the amount
of shots you fired.
is remarkably consistent
with that of your fellow officers.
The truth is
consistent. Lieutenant.
Maybe. But usually
it's not verbatim.
Next time you prep your people.
tell them to use
their own words.
I'll take that under advisement.
Please do.
I'll be right back.
Showing up in person. Bad news?
Didn't want to
put it in writing.
Bad ID on the first vic?
It's worse.
The DNA came back.
The two push-ins are a match.
but our perp. whoever he is.
isn't Terrence Reynolds.
So. our rapist
is still out there.
and more to the point...
These three officers
killed an innocent man.
How many more?
How many more
times must we mourn
the death of an
innocent black youth
at the hands of those who
are sworn to serve and protect?
How many more have to die?
No more! No more!
So. the whole city's on boil.
I have to convene a grand jury.
The DA says it's my last
chance to work my way back
into the good
graces of City Hall.
So they're hanging
you out to dry.
Politicians want an indictment.
the DA wants an indictment.
If I fail to get it. it's on me.
So you'll push for
one. even though
those officers were
just doing their jobs?
Their jobs?
They fired at an unarmed
college student 35 times.
We were in hot pursuit
of a dangerous rapist.
Terrence matched the BOLO
down to his jersey. He ran...
A black man in a
basketball jersey
runs when he gets
stopped by the police?
You're right. he deserves
the death penalty.
That's not what I'm saying.
It's not?
Counselor and Lieutenant Benson.
I trust you're here to
assure our friend. Mr. Barba.
that this was a good shooting?
Or does this relate to the serial
rapist you haven't caught yet?
Actually...
Actually. I was just leaving.
NYPD's PR czar
waltzes into my office.
This must be my lucky day. What
does the Commissioner want now?
I know City Hall has their
agenda. but what we want.
what this city
needs. is clarity.
Clarity? These cops
were chasing down
an armed suspect who
raped a 12-year-old.
Get ahead of it.
Explain why New York
isn't Baltimore or Ferguson.
Or Cleveland or Los
Angeles or Staten Island.
You see the problem?
There's a pattern.
This wasn't a part of it.
The sooner the grand
jury clears these three.
the sooner the city
can begin to heal.
It used to be a rush to
judgment. Now it's a rush to heal.
Mr. Barba. Reverend Curtis
would like to speak with you.
I'll call him back.
Actually. he's here.
Mr. Barba.
Reverend Curtis.
Counselor Henderson.
Deputy Commissioner.
Glad to see you've
taken an interest.
Always.
Mr. and Mrs. Reynolds. on
behalf of the Police Commissioner.
I would like to express
our sincerest condolences.
Thank you.
I was just telling Mr. Barba.
the Commissioner wants a
full and thorough investigation
to ensure justice is served.
I'm sure he does. As do we.
Now. you're the
first to hear this.
NYPD is suspending
the officers involved.
Without pay?
That's a union issue.
I'll leave you in the very
capable hands of the ADA.
Mr. and Mrs. Reynolds. Please.
They've put you in
the hot seat. Mr. Barba.
I just want to get to the truth.
We all do.
Unfortunately. recent grand
juries have been rigged.
So our community has
lost faith in the process.
This process is
going to be different.
We're here to ensure that.
We're going to be proactive.
Inciting the
public will not help.
That's not our intention.
The last thing we
want is more violence.
We're going to conduct
a parallel investigation.
An independent autopsy.
We want to offer another avenue
for people who might not feel
comfortable talking with law enforcement.
Okay. I appreciate that.
And I'd also appreciate any
evidence you find coming directly to me.
Let's not play this
out in the press.
My job is to advocate
for the family.
I will do whatever is
in their best interest.
And that interest.
for all of us. is justice.
As it is for all of us.
Thank you again for coming in.
Again. Mr. and Mrs. Reynolds.
we are all very sorry for your loss.
Thank you.
I know you're tired of this
Kabuki. Rafael. and so am I.
This year alone.
almost 700 people
have been shot and
killed by the police.
Now that won't stop until
cities start to send a message.
I can't imagine the
pressure that you're under.
Please do the right thing here.
We find out about our suspension
by hearing it on the news?
A lot of respect.
Get used to it. City Hall's
looking for sacrificial lambs.
Hey.
Detective Rollins.
Sergeant Donlan.
Detective. Hey.
What are you doing here?
She came to meet me.
Well.
I was just leaving.
Yeah. and I got my wife
and kids crying at home.
Your first?
Yeah.
Good luck.
Thanks.
Sorry about those guys.
Yeah. it's all right. You
guys are under a lot of stress.
Yeah. about that...
You know Barba. Any idea
where he's going with this?
Honestly. I don't.
Your Lieutenant. Fin. and
Carisi. were all on the scene.
SVU's got our back. right?
We know you're good cops.
He was cornered.
his hand went to his waist.
That's when you
use deadly force.
He was guilty of something.
Why else would he run?
Maybe it's best not to
talk about this in public.
Come on. how about
I give you a lift home?
You think I'm drunk?
Mmm.
I'm fine.
What difference does it make?
They're gonna
hang us. aren't they?
Mr. Barba. you didn't
have to come down.
Yeah. I did. I read your report.
Look. I know this
is a tragic situation.
but like it says.
they're not bad apples.
No charges of excessive
force. No accusations of racism.
Commendations for integrity.
meritorious police duty...
So even our best and brightest
are gunning down innocents.
They believed the
suspect had a weapon
and was a threat to themselves
and civilians. It's all in our report.
Yes. I know. I watched the deposition
as well. There appears to be a gap.
You said. "One more
thing." Then it cut out.
A glitch?
No. We thought that they just
sounded a little over-coached.
Over-coached. or coached to lie?
The former.
They each quoted. verbatim.
the legal definition of the
necessary use of force.
We hear that a lot. Lawyers.
Bottom line. if I was in their
shoes. I'd have fired. too.
Thirty-five times?
Amanda... What?
Declan. What are you doing here?
How far along are you?
I'm 4.000 miles away in Serbia trying
to take down a sex-trafficking ring.
I still heard about it.
Seven months.
So that weekend back in
February. The blizzard...
Yeah.
It's mine?
When were you
gonna tell me. darling?
Well.
like you just said. you
were 4.000 miles away.
Didn't really know
how to get a hold of you.
Fair enough. But I'm here now.
For how long?
Can't say.
Which is why I didn't
bother you with it.
You don't have
time to worry about it.
I'm not worried.
Okay. but it's gonna be okay.
My mom's coming up. Um...
It's my decision.
Don't worry. it's not
your responsibility.
But it is.
We gotta talk.
I'm not just gonna walk
away. you know that.
Okay. We'll talk.
Right now I gotta get upstairs.
It's gonna be fine.
Right now there's a lot going on
that I gotta deal
with. We'll talk.
That's my phone.
You call that number.
I'm on a plane in an hour.
The grand jury starts tomorrow.
My advice. make sure your
guys and your guys. especially.
tell the truth in
their own words.
If they sound coached.
or too legalistic...
They'll do fine.
It's a tragedy...
But it was a good shoot.
Tom Wolfe was right. Sooner
or later. all cops become Irish.
Look. I don't get to
voir dire a grand jury.
It's the first 23
through the door
and everyone on that panel
will have heard about this case.
Some of them will think
cops are never guilty.
some will see this through the
prism of Ferguson or Baltimore.
This is different.
You think so. but all it
takes is 12 votes to indict.
Mr. Barba... I said
no interruptions.
I know. but...
Thank you for coming today.
I'd like to warn you that
what you are about to see
is as graphic as it is tragic.
We've obtained
cell phone footage
of Terrence Reynolds running
for his life from the police.
A resident of the building across
the way took it from his window.
Here we see Terrence desperately
trying to open a locked door.
while reaching for his
keys. CAMPESI: Stop!
Hands where I can see them.
He attempts to put his hands up.
turning towards the officer
to comply with his commands.
The officers begin
firing their weapons.
Here it is in slow
motion. Watch closely.
He keeps trying
to put his hands up
even after his
body hits the ground
but the officers
just continue to fire.
until the ninth and final
bullet pierces his body.
This changes things.
It doesn't change a damn thing.
It does. It's out there.
Hold on.
I know this looks bad.
But this is not the
angle that they had.
If it were. of course. they
would never have taken the shot.
They were in the
heat of the chase.
it was dark. they
were in the projects.
They were following procedure.
They were doing what any cop
would have done in their situation.
Any cop?
Even you?
Anyone who's seen
the smoking guns video
knows that Terrence
Reynolds was shot in cold blood
for the crime of
running while black.
What do you think the chances
are your clients will get indicted?
These police officers put their
lives in danger to protect all of us.
The only comment I have...
Terrence's murderers will have
the right to counsel. the right to trial.
Terrence was
deprived of those rights.
In one instant.
these three officers
were his judge.
jury. and executioner.
The police believed the suspect
was armed and dangerous.
When we arrived at the bodega we
secured a security still of the suspect.
which closely matched
our sketch of the rapist.
In this security photo.
as well as the sketch.
the suspect clearly has an afro.
Terrence Reynolds'
hair was short-cropped.
With the cap it's hard to tell.
But they both wore a
distinctive basketball jersey.
Just to be clear.
Terrence Reynolds.
the man who was
killed by police gunfire.
was not the man at this ATM?
No.
But at the time we had
no way of knowing that.
The 10-13 that came in
said the suspect was running
towards the Clayton Powell houses.
And what is a 10-13?
Officer in need of assistance.
Any cop hears that. he drops
what he's doing and responds.
To your knowledge.
was any officer
actually in danger
at that moment?
They were on the
heels of someone
they believed to be an
armed and violent rapist.
So. yeah. that would
constitute danger.
If the suspect was much
younger than the actual rapist.
unarmed and innocent.
what would that constitute?
Hindsight.
Is that what you would
say to Mr. Reynolds' family?
Terrence was a good son.
He was working part-time
at an animal hospital
while he was
going for his degree.
Has your son ever been charged
with a crime. Mr. Reynolds?
He'd been ticketed a few times.
Once for running a
stop sign on his bicycle.
Uh. once for possession of a joint.
- Nothing violent?
No. Never.
Why do you think he ran that
night. when the cops stopped him?
In our neighborhood. relations
with the police are not good.
Many of Terrence's friends
get arrested for no reason.
They can't make bail.
they lose their jobs.
My son didn't do anything wrong.
But he knew that
wouldn't make a difference.
He was just trying to go home.
When the suspect
hid in the doorway.
he moved his hand
towards his belt
in a way that indicated he
might be reaching for a weapon.
In no way is this
reckless endangerment.
In no way is this criminally
negligent homicide.
If it were me. I
would have believed
that our lives and
the lives of bystanders
were in danger.
I would have done
what my officers did.
Your officers made
the assumption
that he was reaching for
a gun and not his keys?
They're trained to assess
the situation by experience.
In this case they were told
the suspect had a weapon.
So. yes.
Would the assumption
have been different
if they'd been chasing a young
white woman or a man in a suit?
Well. that's not
a fair comparison.
The officers were in
pursuit of Mr. Reynolds
because he matched the
description of a dangerous rapist.
Lieutenant.
how many rape suspects
have you chased in your career?
I don't know. a hundred?
And how many times have you
believed your life could be in danger?
Would dozens be a fair estimate?
Okay.
According to your file.
you've shot two such suspects.
Is that correct?
Yes. that is correct.
So you've had dozens of suspects
run. even pull weapons on you.
yet time and again
you've chosen not to shoot.
Terrence Reynolds was shot.
Why? In my opinion.
all police procedures
were followed.
He was not facing them.
Could they have waited
and called for backup?
They were also wearing vests. Could
they have waited even half a second?
Waited for what?
For their partner to get shot?
For their own head
to get blown off?
They followed procedure.
I cannot speak to what I
would have done in that situation
because I was not
in the line of fire.
Neither were
any of the officers.
I'll ask again.
can you think of any
option these officers had
besides shooting
Terrence Reynolds?
In my opinion.
all police procedures
were followed.
The victims of the rapist you
believed you were pursuing
were family members
of a police officer.
Could that have influenced
your decision to shoot?
We were told he had a gun on
the right side of his waistband.
I shot because I thought the
suspect was reaching for that gun.
But you didn't see a gun?
I saw him reach
for his waistband.
He was turning
toward Officer Dumas.
I was in fear for
his life and mine.
That's when instinct took over.
You fired 16 times.
emptying your magazine.
even after Terrence
Reynolds was on the ground.
Why?
We are trained to
shoot until we perceive
that there is no
longer a threat.
In the chaos. with
bullets ricocheting.
you fire until the
shooting stops.
So you. Detective Campesi
and Sergeant Donlan
all thought the suspect
was reaching for a gun.
You all thought your
lives were in danger.
Yes.
The only difference being. Detective
Dumas. you fired just three shots.
Why is that?
As I said. the
situation was chaotic.
But I and my fellow
officers followed procedure.
Just to clarify for the jury. I'd like to
show a video taken by a bystander.
Stop!
Hands where I can see them.
Do you recall this
moment. Detective?
Yes. RAFAEL: Your fellow
officers continued firing
after the suspect was down?
We still didn't see his hands.
We still had reason to
believe that he was armed.
So why did you stop firing?
Again. I didn't have the
angle that you have here now.
Could it have been
that you perceived
that the threat had
been eliminated?
I guess. You guess?
Is it possible you
had second thoughts?
Did you think you should
have waited to determine
whether Terrence Reynolds
was. in fact. armed?
Was. in fact. an actual threat?
I don't know. He was turning...
He was turning but
you didn't see a gun
and that's why
you stopped firing.
Isn't it. Detective?
I don't know...
If you and your fellow officers
had waited half a second longer.
Terrence Reynolds
would be alive today.
Would you agree with that?
Yes.
Hey. How'd it go up there?
I can't talk about it
and neither can you.
But Barba knows
what he's doing. right?
Yeah. he does.
She's in a mood.
Yeah. Well. we all are.
You have in front of you the
charges of reckless endangerment
in the first degree or
criminally negligent homicide.
Before we vote.
is it possible for us
to indict on more
serious charges?
Excuse me?
I don't think we're looking at
recklessness or negligence.
I think we're looking
at murder here.
Can we bring a charge like that?
That is within your purview.
but I would like the
grand jury to understand
that in order to prove
manslaughter one or above.
you have to prove intent.
That's a much
higher legal standard
requiring an increased
level of mens rea.
intent versus negligence.
Well. I'd like you to
explain that standard.
For manslaughter.
murder. whatever.
You know. walk us
through everything.
I can. But before I do. I'd
like to see a show of hands.
How many of you would like to
hear a definition of those charges?
We are extremely gratified
that the grand jury has decided
to indict Sergeant Donlan
and Detective Campesi
on manslaughter one. and Detective
Dumas on reckless endangerment.
This is just the first step
toward justice for Terrence.
We will continue to
do everything we can
to make sure these
officers are held accountable.
Would the parents like
to make a statement?
Obviously. we are
pleased with the indictment.
This is just the
beginning of a long trial...
Well. the DA did
what City Hall wanted.
Blame the cops. keep the peace.
It's just an indictment.
It's not going anywhere.
Son of a bitch. Barba. Good
luck next time he needs a cop.
This might not all be on
Barba. Upping the charges?
Sounds to me like he
had a runaway grand jury.
Runaway. my ass. Barba
led and they followed.
Hey. well. the good thing is.
if this does go to trial. there's
no way they can prove intent.
After what happened today.
you're gonna trust a New York jury?
And what are you
worried about. Doom?
Excuse me?
You want to tell me
what you said up there
that you only got
reckless endangerment?
Wait. easy...
And I want to know what your
lieutenant said up there. too.
That's enough. Okay. okay. okay.
Guys. this is not the time.
Hey. What's his status?
He didn't make it.
I mean. he's shot in the face
they couldn't do anything for him.
Traffic stop gone bad.
They got the shooter.
That the wife?
Yeah.
Two kids. 24.
A rookie.
- Does it get any worse?
- It might.
The Mayor's on his way up.